docs/docs/vulnerability/languages/rust.md, before:

# Rust

## Features
Trivy supports [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/), which is the Rust package manager.
The following table provides an outline of the features Trivy offers.

| Package manager | File       | Transitive dependencies | Dev dependencies | License | Dependency graph | Position |
|-----------------|------------|:-----------------------:|:-----------------|:-------:|:----------------:|:--------:|
| Cargo           | Cargo.lock |            ✅            | Included         |    -    |        ✅         |    ✅     |

In addition, it supports binaries built with [cargo-auditable](https://github.com/rust-secure-code/cargo-auditable).

| Artifact | Transitive dependencies | Dev dependencies | License | Dependency graph | Position |
|----------|:-----------------------:|:-----------------|:-------:|:----------------:|:--------:|
| Binaries |            ✅            | Excluded         |    -    |        -         |    -     |


### Cargo
Trivy searches for `Cargo.lock` to detect dependencies.
Since `Cargo.lock` doesn't have information about the development dependencies, it also includes them.

### Binaries
Trivy scans binaries built with [cargo-auditable](https://github.com/rust-secure-code/cargo-auditable).
If such a binary exists, Trivy will identify it as being built with cargo-audit and scan it.

Commit message:

feat(rust): remove dev deps and find direct deps for Cargo.lock (#3919)
Co-authored-by: knqyf263 <knqyf263@gmail.com>

docs/docs/vulnerability/languages/rust.md, after:

# Rust

## Features
Trivy supports [Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/cargo/), which is the Rust package manager.
The following table provides an outline of the features Trivy offers.

| Package manager | File       | Transitive dependencies | Dev dependencies | License | Dependency graph | Position |
|-----------------|------------|:-----------------------:|:-----------------|:-------:|:----------------:|:--------:|
| Cargo           | Cargo.lock |            ✅            | Excluded[^1]     |    -    |        ✅         |    ✅     |

In addition, it supports binaries built with [cargo-auditable](https://github.com/rust-secure-code/cargo-auditable).

| Artifact | Transitive dependencies | Dev dependencies | License | Dependency graph | Position |
|----------|:-----------------------:|:-----------------|:-------:|:----------------:|:--------:|
| Binaries |            ✅            | Excluded         |    -    |        -         |    -     |


### Cargo
Trivy searches for `Cargo.lock` to detect dependencies.

Trivy also supports dependency trees; however, to display an accurate tree, it needs to know whether each package is a direct dependency of the project.
Since this information is not included in `Cargo.lock`, Trivy parses `Cargo.toml`, which should be located next to `Cargo.lock`.
If you want to see the dependency tree, please ensure that `Cargo.toml` is present.

Scan `Cargo.lock` and `Cargo.toml` together also removes developer dependencies.

### Binaries
Trivy scans binaries built with [cargo-auditable](https://github.com/rust-secure-code/cargo-auditable).
If such a binary exists, Trivy will identify it as being built with cargo-audit and scan it.

[^1]: When you scan Cargo.lock and Cargo.toml together.
