docs/docs/kubernetes/cli/scanning.md, before:

# Kubernetes

!!! warning "EXPERIMENTAL"
    This feature might change without preserving backwards compatibility.

The Trivy K8s CLI allows you to scan your Kubernetes cluster for Vulnerabilities, Secrets and Misconfigurations. You can either run the CLI locally or integrate it into your CI/CD pipeline. The difference to the Trivy CLI is that the Trivy K8s CLI allows you to scan running workloads directly within your cluster.

If you are looking for continuous cluster audit scanning, have a look at the [Trivy K8s operator.](../operator/index.md)

Trivy uses your local kubectl configuration to access the API server to list artifacts.

## CLI Commands

Scan a full cluster and generate a simple summary report:

```
$ trivy k8s --report=summary cluster
```

![k8s Summary Report](../../../imgs/trivy-k8s.png)

The summary report is the default. To get all of the detail the output contains, use `--report all`.

Filter by severity:

```
$ trivy k8s --severity=CRITICAL --report=all cluster
```

Filter by security check (Vulnerabilities, Secrets or Misconfigurations):

```
$ trivy k8s --security-checks=secret --report=summary cluster
# or
$ trivy k8s --security-checks=config --report=summary cluster
```

Scan a specific namespace:

```
$ trivy k8s -n kube-system --report=summary all
```

Use a specific kubeconfig file:

```
$ trivy k8s --kubeconfig ~/.kube/config2 -n kube-system --report=summary all
```

Scan a specific resource and get all the output:

```
$ trivy k8s deployment appname
```

Scan all deploys, or deploys and configmaps:

```
$ trivy k8s --report=summary deployment
$ trivy k8s --report=summary deployment,configmaps
```

If you want to pass in flags before scanning specific workloads, you will have to do it before the resource name.
For example, scanning a deployment in the app namespace of your Kubernetes cluster for critical vulnerabilities would be done through the following command:

```
$ trivy k8s -n app --severity=CRITICAL deployment/appname
```
This is specific to all Trivy CLI commands.

The supported formats are `table`, which is the default, and `json`.
To get a JSON output on a full cluster scan:

```
$ trivy k8s --format json -o results.json cluster
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```json
{
  "ClusterName": "minikube",
  "Vulnerabilities": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "ubuntu:latest (ubuntu 22.04)",
          "Class": "os-pkgs",
          "Type": "ubuntu",
          "Vulnerabilities": [
            {
              "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2016-2781",
              "PkgName": "coreutils",
              "InstalledVersion": "8.32-4.1ubuntu1",
              "Layer": {
                "Digest": "sha256:125a6e411906fe6b0aaa50fc9d600bf6ff9bb11a8651727ce1ed482dc271c24c",
                "DiffID": "sha256:e59fc94956120a6c7629f085027578e6357b48061d45714107e79f04a81a6f0c"
              },
              "SeveritySource": "ubuntu",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2016-2781",
              "DataSource": {
                "ID": "ubuntu",
                "Name": "Ubuntu CVE Tracker",
                "URL": "https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker"
              },
              "Title": "coreutils: Non-privileged session can escape to the parent session in chroot",
              "Description": "chroot in GNU coreutils, when used with --userspec, allows local users to escape to the parent session via a crafted TIOCSTI ioctl call, which pushes characters to the terminal's input buffer.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "CweIDs": [
                "CWE-20"
              ],
              "VendorSeverity": {
                "cbl-mariner": 2,
                "nvd": 2,
                "redhat": 2,
                "ubuntu": 1
              },
              "CVSS": {
                "nvd": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:L/Au:N/C:N/I:P/A:N",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N",
                  "V2Score": 2.1,
                  "V3Score": 6.5
                },
                "redhat": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:H/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H",
                  "V2Score": 6.2,
                  "V3Score": 8.6
                }
              },
              "References": [
                "http://seclists.org/oss-sec/2016/q1/452",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/2",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/3",
                "https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/rf9fa47ab66495c78bb4120b0754dd9531ca2ff0430f6685ac9b07772@%3Cdev.mina.apache.org%3E",
                "https://lore.kernel.org/patchwork/patch/793178/",
                "https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2016-2781"
              ],
              "PublishedDate": "2017-02-07T15:59:00Z",
              "LastModifiedDate": "2021-02-25T17:15:00Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "Misconfigurations": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "Deployment/app",
          "Class": "config",
          "Type": "kubernetes",
          "MisconfSummary": {
            "Successes": 20,
            "Failures": 19,
            "Exceptions": 0
          },
          "Misconfigurations": [
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV001",
              "Title": "Process can elevate its own privileges",
              "Description": "A program inside the container can elevate its own privileges and run as root, which might give the program control over the container and node.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should set 'securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to false",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV001",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV001.deny",
              "Resolution": "Set 'set containers[].securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to 'false'.",
              "Severity": "MEDIUM",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001",
              "References": [
                "https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            },
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV003",
              "Title": "Default capabilities not dropped",
              "Description": "The container should drop all default capabilities and add only those that are needed for its execution.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should add 'ALL' to 'securityContext.capabilities.drop'",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV003",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV003.deny",
              "Resolution": "Add 'ALL' to containers[].securityContext.capabilities.drop.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003",
              "References": [
                "https://kubesec.io/basics/containers-securitycontext-capabilities-drop-index-all/",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "ConfigMap",
      "Name": "kube-root-ca.crt"
    }
  ]
}

```

</details>



## Infra checks

Trivy by default scans kubernetes infra components (apiserver, controller-manager, scheduler and etcd)
if they exist under the `kube-system` namespace. For example, if you run a full cluster scan, or scan all
components under `kube-system` with commands:

```
$ trivy k8s cluster --report summary # full cluster scan
$ trivy k8s all -n kube-system --report summary # scan all components under kube-system
```

A table will be printed about misconfigurations found on kubernetes core components:

```
Summary Report for minikube
┌─────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────┐
│  Namespace  │               Resource               │ Kubernetes Infra Assessment │
│             │                                      ├────┬────┬────┬─────┬────────┤
│             │                                      │ C  │ H  │ M  │ L   │   U    │
├─────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼────┼────┼────┼─────┼────────┤
│ kube-system │ Pod/kube-apiserver-minikube          │    │    │ 1  │ 10  │        │
│ kube-system │ Pod/kube-controller-manager-minikube │    │    │    │ 3   │        │
│ kube-system │ Pod/kube-scheduler-minikube          │    │    │    │ 1   │        │
└─────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┴────┴────┴────┴─────┴────────┘
Severities: C=CRITICAL H=HIGH M=MEDIUM L=LOW U=UNKNOWN
```

The infra checks are based on CIS Benchmarks recommendations for kubernetes.


If you want filter only for the infra checks, you can use the flag `--components` along with the `--security-checks=config`

```
$ trivy k8s cluster --report summary --components=infra --security-checks=config # scan only infra
```

Or, to filter for all other checks besides the infra checks, you can:

```
$ trivy k8s cluster --report summary --components=workload --security-checks=config # scan all components besides infra
```

Commit message:

refactor: rename security-checks to scanners

docs/docs/kubernetes/cli/scanning.md, after:

# Kubernetes

!!! warning "EXPERIMENTAL"
    This feature might change without preserving backwards compatibility.

The Trivy K8s CLI allows you to scan your Kubernetes cluster for Vulnerabilities, Secrets and Misconfigurations. You can either run the CLI locally or integrate it into your CI/CD pipeline. The difference to the Trivy CLI is that the Trivy K8s CLI allows you to scan running workloads directly within your cluster.

If you are looking for continuous cluster audit scanning, have a look at the [Trivy K8s operator.](../operator/index.md)

Trivy uses your local kubectl configuration to access the API server to list artifacts.

## CLI Commands

Scan a full cluster and generate a simple summary report:

```
$ trivy k8s --report=summary cluster
```

![k8s Summary Report](../../../imgs/trivy-k8s.png)

The summary report is the default. To get all of the detail the output contains, use `--report all`.

Filter by severity:

```
$ trivy k8s --severity=CRITICAL --report=all cluster
```

Filter by scanners (Vulnerabilities, Secrets or Misconfigurations):

```
$ trivy k8s --scanners=secret --report=summary cluster
# or
$ trivy k8s --scanners=config --report=summary cluster
```

Scan a specific namespace:

```
$ trivy k8s -n kube-system --report=summary all
```

Use a specific kubeconfig file:

```
$ trivy k8s --kubeconfig ~/.kube/config2 -n kube-system --report=summary all
```

Scan a specific resource and get all the output:

```
$ trivy k8s deployment appname
```

Scan all deploys, or deploys and configmaps:

```
$ trivy k8s --report=summary deployment
$ trivy k8s --report=summary deployment,configmaps
```

If you want to pass in flags before scanning specific workloads, you will have to do it before the resource name.
For example, scanning a deployment in the app namespace of your Kubernetes cluster for critical vulnerabilities would be done through the following command:

```
$ trivy k8s -n app --severity=CRITICAL deployment/appname
```
This is specific to all Trivy CLI commands.

The supported formats are `table`, which is the default, and `json`.
To get a JSON output on a full cluster scan:

```
$ trivy k8s --format json -o results.json cluster
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```json
{
  "ClusterName": "minikube",
  "Vulnerabilities": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "ubuntu:latest (ubuntu 22.04)",
          "Class": "os-pkgs",
          "Type": "ubuntu",
          "Vulnerabilities": [
            {
              "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2016-2781",
              "PkgName": "coreutils",
              "InstalledVersion": "8.32-4.1ubuntu1",
              "Layer": {
                "Digest": "sha256:125a6e411906fe6b0aaa50fc9d600bf6ff9bb11a8651727ce1ed482dc271c24c",
                "DiffID": "sha256:e59fc94956120a6c7629f085027578e6357b48061d45714107e79f04a81a6f0c"
              },
              "SeveritySource": "ubuntu",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2016-2781",
              "DataSource": {
                "ID": "ubuntu",
                "Name": "Ubuntu CVE Tracker",
                "URL": "https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker"
              },
              "Title": "coreutils: Non-privileged session can escape to the parent session in chroot",
              "Description": "chroot in GNU coreutils, when used with --userspec, allows local users to escape to the parent session via a crafted TIOCSTI ioctl call, which pushes characters to the terminal's input buffer.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "CweIDs": [
                "CWE-20"
              ],
              "VendorSeverity": {
                "cbl-mariner": 2,
                "nvd": 2,
                "redhat": 2,
                "ubuntu": 1
              },
              "CVSS": {
                "nvd": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:L/Au:N/C:N/I:P/A:N",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N",
                  "V2Score": 2.1,
                  "V3Score": 6.5
                },
                "redhat": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:H/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H",
                  "V2Score": 6.2,
                  "V3Score": 8.6
                }
              },
              "References": [
                "http://seclists.org/oss-sec/2016/q1/452",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/2",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/3",
                "https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/rf9fa47ab66495c78bb4120b0754dd9531ca2ff0430f6685ac9b07772@%3Cdev.mina.apache.org%3E",
                "https://lore.kernel.org/patchwork/patch/793178/",
                "https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2016-2781"
              ],
              "PublishedDate": "2017-02-07T15:59:00Z",
              "LastModifiedDate": "2021-02-25T17:15:00Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "Misconfigurations": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "Deployment/app",
          "Class": "config",
          "Type": "kubernetes",
          "MisconfSummary": {
            "Successes": 20,
            "Failures": 19,
            "Exceptions": 0
          },
          "Misconfigurations": [
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV001",
              "Title": "Process can elevate its own privileges",
              "Description": "A program inside the container can elevate its own privileges and run as root, which might give the program control over the container and node.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should set 'securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to false",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV001",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV001.deny",
              "Resolution": "Set 'set containers[].securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to 'false'.",
              "Severity": "MEDIUM",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001",
              "References": [
                "https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            },
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV003",
              "Title": "Default capabilities not dropped",
              "Description": "The container should drop all default capabilities and add only those that are needed for its execution.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should add 'ALL' to 'securityContext.capabilities.drop'",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV003",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV003.deny",
              "Resolution": "Add 'ALL' to containers[].securityContext.capabilities.drop.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003",
              "References": [
                "https://kubesec.io/basics/containers-securitycontext-capabilities-drop-index-all/",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "ConfigMap",
      "Name": "kube-root-ca.crt"
    }
  ]
}

```

</details>



## Infra checks

Trivy by default scans kubernetes infra components (apiserver, controller-manager, scheduler and etcd)
if they exist under the `kube-system` namespace. For example, if you run a full cluster scan, or scan all
components under `kube-system` with commands:

```
$ trivy k8s cluster --report summary # full cluster scan
$ trivy k8s all -n kube-system --report summary # scan all components under kube-system
```

A table will be printed about misconfigurations found on kubernetes core components:

```
Summary Report for minikube
┌─────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────┐
│  Namespace  │               Resource               │ Kubernetes Infra Assessment │
│             │                                      ├────┬────┬────┬─────┬────────┤
│             │                                      │ C  │ H  │ M  │ L   │   U    │
├─────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────┼────┼────┼────┼─────┼────────┤
│ kube-system │ Pod/kube-apiserver-minikube          │    │    │ 1  │ 10  │        │
│ kube-system │ Pod/kube-controller-manager-minikube │    │    │    │ 3   │        │
│ kube-system │ Pod/kube-scheduler-minikube          │    │    │    │ 1   │        │
└─────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────┴────┴────┴────┴─────┴────────┘
Severities: C=CRITICAL H=HIGH M=MEDIUM L=LOW U=UNKNOWN
```

The infra checks are based on CIS Benchmarks recommendations for kubernetes.


If you want filter only for the infra checks, you can use the flag `--components` along with the `--scanners=config`

```
$ trivy k8s cluster --report summary --components=infra --scanners=config # scan only infra
```

Or, to filter for all other checks besides the infra checks, you can:

```
$ trivy k8s cluster --report summary --components=workload --scanners=config # scan all components besides infra
```
