docs/docs/references/cli/sbom.md, before:

# SBOM

```bash
Scan SBOM for vulnerabilities

Usage:
  trivy sbom [flags] SBOM_PATH

Examples:
  # Scan CycloneDX and show the result in tables
  $ trivy sbom /path/to/report.cdx

  # Scan CycloneDX and generate a CycloneDX report
  $ trivy sbom --format cyclonedx /path/to/report.cdx


Scan Flags
      --offline-scan             do not issue API requests to identify dependencies
      --security-checks string   comma-separated list of what security issues to detect (vuln,config,secret) (default "vuln,secret")
      --skip-dirs strings        specify the directories where the traversal is skipped
      --skip-files strings       specify the file paths to skip traversal

Report Flags
      --exit-code int          specify exit code when any security issues are found
  -f, --format string          format (table, json, sarif, template, cyclonedx, spdx, spdx-json, github, cosign-vuln) (default "table")
      --ignore-policy string   specify the Rego file path to evaluate each vulnerability
      --ignorefile string      specify .trivyignore file (default ".trivyignore")
      --list-all-pkgs          enabling the option will output all packages regardless of vulnerability
  -o, --output string          output file name
  -s, --severity string        severities of security issues to be displayed (comma separated) (default "UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL")
  -t, --template string        output template

Cache Flags
      --cache-backend string   cache backend (e.g. redis://localhost:6379) (default "fs")
      --cache-ttl duration     cache TTL when using redis as cache backend
      --clear-cache            clear image caches without scanning
      --redis-ca string        redis ca file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-cert string      redis certificate file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-key string       redis key file location, if using redis as cache backend

DB Flags
      --db-repository string   OCI repository to retrieve trivy-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db")
      --download-db-only       download/update vulnerability database but don't run a scan
      --no-progress            suppress progress bar
      --reset                  remove all caches and database
      --skip-db-update         skip updating vulnerability database

Vulnerability Flags
      --ignore-unfixed     display only fixed vulnerabilities
      --vuln-type string   comma-separated list of vulnerability types (os,library) (default "os,library")

Client/Server Flags
      --custom-headers strings   custom headers in client mode
      --server string            server address in client mode
      --token string             for authentication in client/server mode
      --token-header string      specify a header name for token in client/server mode (default "Trivy-Token")

Global Flags:
      --cache-dir string          cache directory (default "/Users/teppei/Library/Caches/trivy")
  -c, --config string             config path (default "trivy.yaml")
  -d, --debug                     debug mode
      --generate-default-config   write the default config to trivy-default.yaml
      --insecure                  allow insecure server connections when using TLS
  -q, --quiet                     suppress progress bar and log output
      --timeout duration          timeout (default 5m0s)
  -v, --version                   show version
```

Commit message:

feat(sbom): add support for scanning a sbom attestation (#2652)
Co-authored-by: knqyf263 <knqyf263@gmail.com>

docs/docs/references/cli/sbom.md, after:

# SBOM

```bash
Scan SBOM for vulnerabilities

Usage:
  trivy sbom [flags] SBOM_PATH

Examples:
  # Scan CycloneDX and show the result in tables
  $ trivy sbom /path/to/report.cdx

  # Scan CycloneDX and generate a CycloneDX report
  $ trivy sbom --format cyclonedx /path/to/report.cdx

  # Scan CycloneDX-type attestation and show the result in tables
  $ trivy sbom /path/to/report.cdx.intoto.jsonl


Scan Flags
      --offline-scan             do not issue API requests to identify dependencies
      --security-checks string   comma-separated list of what security issues to detect (vuln,config,secret) (default "vuln,secret")
      --skip-dirs strings        specify the directories where the traversal is skipped
      --skip-files strings       specify the file paths to skip traversal

Report Flags
      --exit-code int          specify exit code when any security issues are found
  -f, --format string          format (table, json, sarif, template, cyclonedx, spdx, spdx-json, github, cosign-vuln) (default "table")
      --ignore-policy string   specify the Rego file path to evaluate each vulnerability
      --ignorefile string      specify .trivyignore file (default ".trivyignore")
      --list-all-pkgs          enabling the option will output all packages regardless of vulnerability
  -o, --output string          output file name
  -s, --severity string        severities of security issues to be displayed (comma separated) (default "UNKNOWN,LOW,MEDIUM,HIGH,CRITICAL")
  -t, --template string        output template

Cache Flags
      --cache-backend string   cache backend (e.g. redis://localhost:6379) (default "fs")
      --cache-ttl duration     cache TTL when using redis as cache backend
      --clear-cache            clear image caches without scanning
      --redis-ca string        redis ca file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-cert string      redis certificate file location, if using redis as cache backend
      --redis-key string       redis key file location, if using redis as cache backend

DB Flags
      --db-repository string   OCI repository to retrieve trivy-db from (default "ghcr.io/aquasecurity/trivy-db")
      --download-db-only       download/update vulnerability database but don't run a scan
      --no-progress            suppress progress bar
      --reset                  remove all caches and database
      --skip-db-update         skip updating vulnerability database

Vulnerability Flags
      --ignore-unfixed     display only fixed vulnerabilities
      --vuln-type string   comma-separated list of vulnerability types (os,library) (default "os,library")

Client/Server Flags
      --custom-headers strings   custom headers in client mode
      --server string            server address in client mode
      --token string             for authentication in client/server mode
      --token-header string      specify a header name for token in client/server mode (default "Trivy-Token")

Global Flags:
      --cache-dir string          cache directory (default "/Users/teppei/Library/Caches/trivy")
  -c, --config string             config path (default "trivy.yaml")
  -d, --debug                     debug mode
      --generate-default-config   write the default config to trivy-default.yaml
      --insecure                  allow insecure server connections when using TLS
  -q, --quiet                     suppress progress bar and log output
      --timeout duration          timeout (default 5m0s)
  -v, --version                   show version
```
