docs/docs/kubernetes/scanning.md, before:

# Kubernetes

!!! warning "EXPERIMENTAL"

This feature might change without preserving backwards compatibility.

Scan your Kubernetes cluster for both Vulnerabilities and Misconfigurations.

Trivy uses your local kubectl configuration to access the API server to list artifacts.

Scan a full cluster:

```
$ trivy k8s
```

Scan a specific namespace:

```
$ trivy k8s -n default
```

Scan a namespace for only `CRITICAL` Vulnerabilities and Misconfigurations:

```
$ trivy k8s -n default --severity CRITICAL
```

Scan a cluster and generate a simple summary report. The only outputs currently supported are `all` and `summary`. The default report format is `summary`

```
$ trivy k8s
```

![k8s Summary Report](../../imgs/k8s-summary.png)

To get all of the detail the output contains, use `--report all`, to get JSON output:

```
$ trivy k8s --report all
```


<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```json
{
  "ClusterName": "minikube",
  "Vulnerabilities": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "ubuntu:latest (ubuntu 22.04)",
          "Class": "os-pkgs",
          "Type": "ubuntu",
          "Vulnerabilities": [
            {
              "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2016-2781",
              "PkgName": "coreutils",
              "InstalledVersion": "8.32-4.1ubuntu1",
              "Layer": {
                "Digest": "sha256:125a6e411906fe6b0aaa50fc9d600bf6ff9bb11a8651727ce1ed482dc271c24c",
                "DiffID": "sha256:e59fc94956120a6c7629f085027578e6357b48061d45714107e79f04a81a6f0c"
              },
              "SeveritySource": "ubuntu",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2016-2781",
              "DataSource": {
                "ID": "ubuntu",
                "Name": "Ubuntu CVE Tracker",
                "URL": "https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker"
              },
              "Title": "coreutils: Non-privileged session can escape to the parent session in chroot",
              "Description": "chroot in GNU coreutils, when used with --userspec, allows local users to escape to the parent session via a crafted TIOCSTI ioctl call, which pushes characters to the terminal's input buffer.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "CweIDs": [
                "CWE-20"
              ],
              "VendorSeverity": {
                "cbl-mariner": 2,
                "nvd": 2,
                "redhat": 2,
                "ubuntu": 1
              },
              "CVSS": {
                "nvd": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:L/Au:N/C:N/I:P/A:N",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N",
                  "V2Score": 2.1,
                  "V3Score": 6.5
                },
                "redhat": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:H/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H",
                  "V2Score": 6.2,
                  "V3Score": 8.6
                }
              },
              "References": [
                "http://seclists.org/oss-sec/2016/q1/452",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/2",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/3",
                "https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/rf9fa47ab66495c78bb4120b0754dd9531ca2ff0430f6685ac9b07772@%3Cdev.mina.apache.org%3E",
                "https://lore.kernel.org/patchwork/patch/793178/",
                "https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2016-2781"
              ],
              "PublishedDate": "2017-02-07T15:59:00Z",
              "LastModifiedDate": "2021-02-25T17:15:00Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "Misconfigurations": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "Deployment/app",
          "Class": "config",
          "Type": "kubernetes",
          "MisconfSummary": {
            "Successes": 20,
            "Failures": 19,
            "Exceptions": 0
          },
          "Misconfigurations": [
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV001",
              "Title": "Process can elevate its own privileges",
              "Description": "A program inside the container can elevate its own privileges and run as root, which might give the program control over the container and node.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should set 'securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to false",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV001",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV001.deny",
              "Resolution": "Set 'set containers[].securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to 'false'.",
              "Severity": "MEDIUM",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001",
              "References": [
                "https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            },
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV003",
              "Title": "Default capabilities not dropped",
              "Description": "The container should drop all default capabilities and add only those that are needed for its execution.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should add 'ALL' to 'securityContext.capabilities.drop'",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV003",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV003.deny",
              "Resolution": "Add 'ALL' to containers[].securityContext.capabilities.drop.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003",
              "References": [
                "https://kubesec.io/basics/containers-securitycontext-capabilities-drop-index-all/",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "ConfigMap",
      "Name": "kube-root-ca.crt"
    }
  ]
}

```

</details>

Commit message:

docs: add single resource scan
Signed-off-by: Jose Donizetti <jdbjunior@gmail.com>

docs/docs/kubernetes/scanning.md, after:

# Kubernetes

!!! warning "EXPERIMENTAL"

This feature might change without preserving backwards compatibility.

Scan your Kubernetes cluster for both Vulnerabilities and Misconfigurations.

Trivy uses your local kubectl configuration to access the API server to list artifacts.

Scan a full cluster and generate a simple summary report:

```
$ trivy k8s
```

![k8s Summary Report](../../imgs/k8s-summary.png)

The summary report is the default. To get all of the detail the output contains, use `--report all`.

Scan a specific namespace:

```
$ trivy k8s -n kube-system
```

Scan a specific resource and get all the output:

```
$ trivy k8s -n default --report all deployment/appname
```

The supported formats are `table`, which is the default, and `json`.
To get a JSON output on a full cluster scan:

```
$ trivy k8s --report all --format json -o results.json
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```json
{
  "ClusterName": "minikube",
  "Vulnerabilities": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "ubuntu:latest (ubuntu 22.04)",
          "Class": "os-pkgs",
          "Type": "ubuntu",
          "Vulnerabilities": [
            {
              "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2016-2781",
              "PkgName": "coreutils",
              "InstalledVersion": "8.32-4.1ubuntu1",
              "Layer": {
                "Digest": "sha256:125a6e411906fe6b0aaa50fc9d600bf6ff9bb11a8651727ce1ed482dc271c24c",
                "DiffID": "sha256:e59fc94956120a6c7629f085027578e6357b48061d45714107e79f04a81a6f0c"
              },
              "SeveritySource": "ubuntu",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2016-2781",
              "DataSource": {
                "ID": "ubuntu",
                "Name": "Ubuntu CVE Tracker",
                "URL": "https://git.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cve-tracker"
              },
              "Title": "coreutils: Non-privileged session can escape to the parent session in chroot",
              "Description": "chroot in GNU coreutils, when used with --userspec, allows local users to escape to the parent session via a crafted TIOCSTI ioctl call, which pushes characters to the terminal's input buffer.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "CweIDs": [
                "CWE-20"
              ],
              "VendorSeverity": {
                "cbl-mariner": 2,
                "nvd": 2,
                "redhat": 2,
                "ubuntu": 1
              },
              "CVSS": {
                "nvd": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:L/Au:N/C:N/I:P/A:N",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N",
                  "V2Score": 2.1,
                  "V3Score": 6.5
                },
                "redhat": {
                  "V2Vector": "AV:L/AC:H/Au:N/C:C/I:C/A:C",
                  "V3Vector": "CVSS:3.0/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H",
                  "V2Score": 6.2,
                  "V3Score": 8.6
                }
              },
              "References": [
                "http://seclists.org/oss-sec/2016/q1/452",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/2",
                "http://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2016/02/28/3",
                "https://access.redhat.com/security/cve/CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2016-2781",
                "https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/rf9fa47ab66495c78bb4120b0754dd9531ca2ff0430f6685ac9b07772@%3Cdev.mina.apache.org%3E",
                "https://lore.kernel.org/patchwork/patch/793178/",
                "https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2016-2781"
              ],
              "PublishedDate": "2017-02-07T15:59:00Z",
              "LastModifiedDate": "2021-02-25T17:15:00Z"
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "Misconfigurations": [
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "Deployment",
      "Name": "app",
      "Results": [
        {
          "Target": "Deployment/app",
          "Class": "config",
          "Type": "kubernetes",
          "MisconfSummary": {
            "Successes": 20,
            "Failures": 19,
            "Exceptions": 0
          },
          "Misconfigurations": [
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV001",
              "Title": "Process can elevate its own privileges",
              "Description": "A program inside the container can elevate its own privileges and run as root, which might give the program control over the container and node.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should set 'securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to false",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV001",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV001.deny",
              "Resolution": "Set 'set containers[].securityContext.allowPrivilegeEscalation' to 'false'.",
              "Severity": "MEDIUM",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001",
              "References": [
                "https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/#restricted",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv001"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            },
            {
              "Type": "Kubernetes Security Check",
              "ID": "KSV003",
              "Title": "Default capabilities not dropped",
              "Description": "The container should drop all default capabilities and add only those that are needed for its execution.",
              "Message": "Container 'app' of Deployment 'app' should add 'ALL' to 'securityContext.capabilities.drop'",
              "Namespace": "builtin.kubernetes.KSV003",
              "Query": "data.builtin.kubernetes.KSV003.deny",
              "Resolution": "Add 'ALL' to containers[].securityContext.capabilities.drop.",
              "Severity": "LOW",
              "PrimaryURL": "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003",
              "References": [
                "https://kubesec.io/basics/containers-securitycontext-capabilities-drop-index-all/",
                "https://avd.aquasec.com/misconfig/ksv003"
              ],
              "Status": "FAIL",
              "Layer": {},
              "IacMetadata": {
                "Provider": "Kubernetes",
                "Service": "general",
                "StartLine": 121,
                "EndLine": 133
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "Namespace": "default",
      "Kind": "ConfigMap",
      "Name": "kube-root-ca.crt"
    }
  ]
}

```

</details>
