docs/docs/integrations/gitlab-ci.md, before:

# GitLab CI

GitLab 15.0 includes [free](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/2233) integration with Trivy.

To [configure container scanning with Trivy in GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/#configuration), simply include the CI template in your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file:

```yaml
include:
  - template: Security/Container-Scanning.gitlab-ci.yml
```

If you're a GitLab 14.x Ultimate customer, you can use the same configuration above.

Alternatively, you can always use the example configurations below. Note that the examples use [`contrib/gitlab.tpl`](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/blob/main/contrib/gitlab.tpl), which does not work with GitLab 15.0 and above (for details, see [issue 1598](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/issues/1598)).

```yaml
stages:
  - test

trivy:
  stage: test
  image: docker:stable
  services:
    - name: docker:dind
      entrypoint: ["env", "-u", "DOCKER_HOST"]
      command: ["dockerd-entrypoint.sh"]
  variables:
    DOCKER_HOST: tcp://docker:2375/
    DOCKER_DRIVER: overlay2
    # See https://github.com/docker-library/docker/pull/166
    DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR: ""
    IMAGE: trivy-ci-test:$CI_COMMIT_SHA
    TRIVY_NO_PROGRESS: "true"
    TRIVY_CACHE_DIR: ".trivycache/"
  before_script:
    - export TRIVY_VERSION=$(wget -qO - "https://api.github.com/repos/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/latest" | grep '"tag_name":' | sed -E 's/.*"v([^"]+)".*/\1/')
    - echo $TRIVY_VERSION
    - wget --no-verbose https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/download/v${TRIVY_VERSION}/trivy_${TRIVY_VERSION}_Linux-64bit.tar.gz -O - | tar -zxvf -
  allow_failure: true
  script:
    # Build image
    - docker build -t $IMAGE .
    # Build report
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@contrib/gitlab.tpl" -o gl-container-scanning-report.json $IMAGE
    # Print report
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 0 --severity HIGH $IMAGE
    # Fail on severe vulnerabilities
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 1 --severity CRITICAL $IMAGE
  cache:
    paths:
      - .trivycache/
  # Enables https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/ (Container Scanning report is available on GitLab EE Ultimate or GitLab.com Gold)
  artifacts:
    reports:
      container_scanning: gl-container-scanning-report.json
```

[Example][example]
[Repository][repository]

### GitLab CI using Trivy container

To scan a previously built image that has already been pushed into the
GitLab container registry the following CI job manifest can be used.
Note that `entrypoint` needs to be unset for the `script` section to work.
In case of a non-public GitLab project Trivy additionally needs to
authenticate to the registry to be able to pull your application image.
Finally, it is not necessary to clone the project repo as we only work
with the container image.

```yaml
container_scanning:
  image:
    name: docker.io/aquasec/trivy:latest
    entrypoint: [""]
  variables:
    # No need to clone the repo, we exclusively work on artifacts.  See
    # https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/runners/README.html#git-strategy
    GIT_STRATEGY: none
    TRIVY_USERNAME: "$CI_REGISTRY_USER"
    TRIVY_PASSWORD: "$CI_REGISTRY_PASSWORD"
    TRIVY_AUTH_URL: "$CI_REGISTRY"
    TRIVY_NO_PROGRESS: "true"
    TRIVY_CACHE_DIR: ".trivycache/"
    FULL_IMAGE_NAME: $CI_REGISTRY_IMAGE:$CI_COMMIT_REF_SLUG
  script:
    - trivy --version
    # cache cleanup is needed when scanning images with the same tags, it does not remove the database
    - time trivy image --clear-cache
    # update vulnerabilities db
    - time trivy image --download-db-only
    # Builds report and puts it in the default workdir $CI_PROJECT_DIR, so `artifacts:` can take it from there
    - time trivy image --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@/contrib/gitlab.tpl"
        --output "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/gl-container-scanning-report.json" "$FULL_IMAGE_NAME"
    # Prints full report
    - time trivy image --exit-code 0 "$FULL_IMAGE_NAME"
    # Fail on critical vulnerabilities
    - time trivy image --exit-code 1 --severity CRITICAL "$FULL_IMAGE_NAME"
  cache:
    paths:
      - .trivycache/
  # Enables https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/ (Container Scanning report is available on GitLab EE Ultimate or GitLab.com Gold)
  artifacts:
    when:                          always
    reports:
      container_scanning:          gl-container-scanning-report.json
  tags:
    - docker-runner
```

[example]: https://gitlab.com/aquasecurity/trivy-ci-test/pipelines
[repository]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-ci-test

### Gitlab CI alternative template

Depending on the edition of gitlab you have or your desired workflow, the
container scanning template may not meet your needs. As an addition to the
above container scanning template, a template for
[code climate](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/merge_requests/code_quality.html)
has been included. The key things to update from the above examples are
the `template` and `report` type. An updated example is below.

```yaml
stages:
  - test

trivy:
  stage: test
  image: docker:stable
  services:
    - name: docker:dind
      entrypoint: ["env", "-u", "DOCKER_HOST"]
      command: ["dockerd-entrypoint.sh"]
  variables:
    DOCKER_HOST: tcp://docker:2375/
    DOCKER_DRIVER: overlay2
    # See https://github.com/docker-library/docker/pull/166
    DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR: ""
    IMAGE: trivy-ci-test:$CI_COMMIT_SHA
    TRIVY_NO_PROGRESS: "true"
    TRIVY_CACHE_DIR: ".trivycache/"
  before_script:
    - export TRIVY_VERSION=$(wget -qO - "https://api.github.com/repos/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/latest" | grep '"tag_name":' | sed -E 's/.*"v([^"]+)".*/\1/')
    - echo $TRIVY_VERSION
    - wget --no-verbose https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/download/v${TRIVY_VERSION}/trivy_${TRIVY_VERSION}_Linux-64bit.tar.gz -O - | tar -zxvf -
  allow_failure: true
  script:
    # Build image
    - docker build -t $IMAGE .
    # Image report
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@contrib/gitlab-codequality.tpl" -o gl-codeclimate-image.json $IMAGE
    # Filesystem report
    - ./trivy filesystem --security-checks config,vuln --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@contrib/gitlab-codequality.tpl" -o gl-codeclimate-fs.json .
    # Combine report
    - apk update && apk add jq
    - jq -s 'add' gl-codeclimate-image.json gl-codeclimate-fs.json > gl-codeclimate.json
  cache:
    paths:
      - .trivycache/
  # Enables https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/ (Container Scanning report is available on GitLab EE Ultimate or GitLab.com Gold)
  artifacts:
    paths:
      - gl-codeclimate.json
    reports:
      codequality: gl-codeclimate.json
```

Currently gitlab only supports a single code quality report. There is an
open [feature request](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/9014)
to support multiple reports. Until this has been implemented, if you
already have a code quality report in your pipeline, you can use
`jq` to combine reports. Depending on how you name your artifacts, it may
be necessary to rename the artifact if you want to reuse the name. To then
combine the previous artifact with the output of trivy, the following `jq`
command can be used, `jq -s 'add' prev-codeclimate.json trivy-codeclimate.json > gl-codeclimate.json`.

### Gitlab CI alternative template example report

You'll be able to see a full report in the Gitlab pipeline code quality UI, where filesystem vulnerabilities and misconfigurations include links to the flagged files and image vulnerabilities report the image/os or runtime/library that the vulnerability originates from instead.

![codequality](../../imgs/gitlab-codequality.png)

Commit message:

spelling: gitlab
Signed-off-by: Josh Soref <jsoref@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/integrations/gitlab-ci.md, after:

# GitLab CI

GitLab 15.0 includes [free](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/2233) integration with Trivy.

To [configure container scanning with Trivy in GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/#configuration), simply include the CI template in your `.gitlab-ci.yml` file:

```yaml
include:
  - template: Security/Container-Scanning.gitlab-ci.yml
```

If you're a GitLab 14.x Ultimate customer, you can use the same configuration above.

Alternatively, you can always use the example configurations below. Note that the examples use [`contrib/gitlab.tpl`](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/blob/main/contrib/gitlab.tpl), which does not work with GitLab 15.0 and above (for details, see [issue 1598](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/issues/1598)).

```yaml
stages:
  - test

trivy:
  stage: test
  image: docker:stable
  services:
    - name: docker:dind
      entrypoint: ["env", "-u", "DOCKER_HOST"]
      command: ["dockerd-entrypoint.sh"]
  variables:
    DOCKER_HOST: tcp://docker:2375/
    DOCKER_DRIVER: overlay2
    # See https://github.com/docker-library/docker/pull/166
    DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR: ""
    IMAGE: trivy-ci-test:$CI_COMMIT_SHA
    TRIVY_NO_PROGRESS: "true"
    TRIVY_CACHE_DIR: ".trivycache/"
  before_script:
    - export TRIVY_VERSION=$(wget -qO - "https://api.github.com/repos/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/latest" | grep '"tag_name":' | sed -E 's/.*"v([^"]+)".*/\1/')
    - echo $TRIVY_VERSION
    - wget --no-verbose https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/download/v${TRIVY_VERSION}/trivy_${TRIVY_VERSION}_Linux-64bit.tar.gz -O - | tar -zxvf -
  allow_failure: true
  script:
    # Build image
    - docker build -t $IMAGE .
    # Build report
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@contrib/gitlab.tpl" -o gl-container-scanning-report.json $IMAGE
    # Print report
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 0 --severity HIGH $IMAGE
    # Fail on severe vulnerabilities
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 1 --severity CRITICAL $IMAGE
  cache:
    paths:
      - .trivycache/
  # Enables https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/ (Container Scanning report is available on GitLab EE Ultimate or GitLab.com Gold)
  artifacts:
    reports:
      container_scanning: gl-container-scanning-report.json
```

[Example][example]
[Repository][repository]

### GitLab CI using Trivy container

To scan a previously built image that has already been pushed into the
GitLab container registry the following CI job manifest can be used.
Note that `entrypoint` needs to be unset for the `script` section to work.
In case of a non-public GitLab project Trivy additionally needs to
authenticate to the registry to be able to pull your application image.
Finally, it is not necessary to clone the project repo as we only work
with the container image.

```yaml
container_scanning:
  image:
    name: docker.io/aquasec/trivy:latest
    entrypoint: [""]
  variables:
    # No need to clone the repo, we exclusively work on artifacts.  See
    # https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/runners/README.html#git-strategy
    GIT_STRATEGY: none
    TRIVY_USERNAME: "$CI_REGISTRY_USER"
    TRIVY_PASSWORD: "$CI_REGISTRY_PASSWORD"
    TRIVY_AUTH_URL: "$CI_REGISTRY"
    TRIVY_NO_PROGRESS: "true"
    TRIVY_CACHE_DIR: ".trivycache/"
    FULL_IMAGE_NAME: $CI_REGISTRY_IMAGE:$CI_COMMIT_REF_SLUG
  script:
    - trivy --version
    # cache cleanup is needed when scanning images with the same tags, it does not remove the database
    - time trivy image --clear-cache
    # update vulnerabilities db
    - time trivy image --download-db-only
    # Builds report and puts it in the default workdir $CI_PROJECT_DIR, so `artifacts:` can take it from there
    - time trivy image --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@/contrib/gitlab.tpl"
        --output "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/gl-container-scanning-report.json" "$FULL_IMAGE_NAME"
    # Prints full report
    - time trivy image --exit-code 0 "$FULL_IMAGE_NAME"
    # Fail on critical vulnerabilities
    - time trivy image --exit-code 1 --severity CRITICAL "$FULL_IMAGE_NAME"
  cache:
    paths:
      - .trivycache/
  # Enables https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/ (Container Scanning report is available on GitLab EE Ultimate or GitLab.com Gold)
  artifacts:
    when:                          always
    reports:
      container_scanning:          gl-container-scanning-report.json
  tags:
    - docker-runner
```

[example]: https://gitlab.com/aquasecurity/trivy-ci-test/pipelines
[repository]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-ci-test

### GitLab CI alternative template

Depending on the edition of gitlab you have or your desired workflow, the
container scanning template may not meet your needs. As an addition to the
above container scanning template, a template for
[code climate](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/merge_requests/code_quality.html)
has been included. The key things to update from the above examples are
the `template` and `report` type. An updated example is below.

```yaml
stages:
  - test

trivy:
  stage: test
  image: docker:stable
  services:
    - name: docker:dind
      entrypoint: ["env", "-u", "DOCKER_HOST"]
      command: ["dockerd-entrypoint.sh"]
  variables:
    DOCKER_HOST: tcp://docker:2375/
    DOCKER_DRIVER: overlay2
    # See https://github.com/docker-library/docker/pull/166
    DOCKER_TLS_CERTDIR: ""
    IMAGE: trivy-ci-test:$CI_COMMIT_SHA
    TRIVY_NO_PROGRESS: "true"
    TRIVY_CACHE_DIR: ".trivycache/"
  before_script:
    - export TRIVY_VERSION=$(wget -qO - "https://api.github.com/repos/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/latest" | grep '"tag_name":' | sed -E 's/.*"v([^"]+)".*/\1/')
    - echo $TRIVY_VERSION
    - wget --no-verbose https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/releases/download/v${TRIVY_VERSION}/trivy_${TRIVY_VERSION}_Linux-64bit.tar.gz -O - | tar -zxvf -
  allow_failure: true
  script:
    # Build image
    - docker build -t $IMAGE .
    # Image report
    - ./trivy image --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@contrib/gitlab-codequality.tpl" -o gl-codeclimate-image.json $IMAGE
    # Filesystem report
    - ./trivy filesystem --security-checks config,vuln --exit-code 0 --format template --template "@contrib/gitlab-codequality.tpl" -o gl-codeclimate-fs.json .
    # Combine report
    - apk update && apk add jq
    - jq -s 'add' gl-codeclimate-image.json gl-codeclimate-fs.json > gl-codeclimate.json
  cache:
    paths:
      - .trivycache/
  # Enables https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/application_security/container_scanning/ (Container Scanning report is available on GitLab EE Ultimate or GitLab.com Gold)
  artifacts:
    paths:
      - gl-codeclimate.json
    reports:
      codequality: gl-codeclimate.json
```

Currently gitlab only supports a single code quality report. There is an
open [feature request](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/9014)
to support multiple reports. Until this has been implemented, if you
already have a code quality report in your pipeline, you can use
`jq` to combine reports. Depending on how you name your artifacts, it may
be necessary to rename the artifact if you want to reuse the name. To then
combine the previous artifact with the output of trivy, the following `jq`
command can be used, `jq -s 'add' prev-codeclimate.json trivy-codeclimate.json > gl-codeclimate.json`.

### GitLab CI alternative template example report

You'll be able to see a full report in the GitLab pipeline code quality UI, where filesystem vulnerabilities and misconfigurations include links to the flagged files and image vulnerabilities report the image/os or runtime/library that the vulnerability originates from instead.

![codequality](../../imgs/gitlab-codequality.png)
