docs/index.md, before:

---
hide:
- navigation
- toc
---

![logo](imgs/logo.png){ align=left }

`Trivy` (`tri` pronounced like **tri**gger, `vy` pronounced like en**vy**) is a simple and comprehensive [vulnerability][vulnerability]/[misconfiguration][misconf]/[secret][secret] scanner for containers and other artifacts.
`Trivy` detects vulnerabilities of [OS packages][os] (Alpine, RHEL, CentOS, etc.) and [language-specific packages][lang] (Bundler, Composer, npm, yarn, etc.).
In addition, `Trivy` scans [Infrastructure as Code (IaC) files][misconf] such as Terraform and Kubernetes, to detect potential configuration issues that expose your deployments to the risk of attack.
`Trivy` also scans [hardcoded secrets][secret] like passwords, API keys and tokens.
`Trivy` is easy to use. Just install the binary and you're ready to scan.
All you need to do for scanning is to specify a target such as an image name of the container.

<div style="text-align: center">
    <img src="imgs/overview.png" width="800">
</div>


<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 150px">
    <h1 id="demo">Demo</h1>
</div>

<figure style="text-align: center">
  <video width="1000" autoplay muted controls loop>
    <source src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1161307/171013513-95f18734-233d-45d3-aaf5-d6aec687db0e.mov" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
  <figcaption>Demo: Vulnerability Detection</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure style="text-align: center">
  <video width="1000" autoplay muted controls loop>
    <source src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1161307/171013917-b1f37810-f434-465c-b01a-22de036bd9b3.mov" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
  <figcaption>Demo: Misconfiguration Detection</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure style="text-align: center">
  <img src="imgs/secret-demo.gif" width="1000">
  <figcaption>Demo: Secret Detection</figcaption>
</figure>

---

Trivy is an [Aqua Security][aquasec] open source project.  
Learn about our open source work and portfolio [here][oss].  
Contact us about any matter by opening a GitHub Discussion [here][discussions]

[vulnerability]: docs/vulnerability/scanning/index.md
[misconf]: docs/misconfiguration/scanning.md
[secret]: docs/secret/scanning.md
[os]: docs/vulnerability/detection/os.md
[lang]: docs/vulnerability/detection/language.md

[aquasec]: https://aquasec.com
[oss]: https://www.aquasec.com/products/open-source-projects/
[discussions]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/discussions

Commit message:

docs: restructure docs and add tutorials

docs/index.md, after:

---
hide:
- toc
---

![logo](imgs/logo.png){ align=right }

Trivy (tri pronounced like trigger, vy pronounced like envy) is a comprehensive security scanner. It is reliable, fast, extremely easy to use, and it works wherever you need it.

Trivy has different scanners that look for different security issues, and different targets where it can find those issues.

Targets:

- Container Image
- Filesystem
- Git repository (remote)
- Kubernetes cluster or resource

Scanners:

- OS packages and software dependencies in use (SBOM)
- Known vulnerabilities (CVEs)
- IaC misconfigurations
- Sensitive information and secrets

It is designed to be used in CI. Before pushing to a container registry or deploying your application, you can scan your local container image and other artifacts easily.
See [Integrations][integrations] for details.

Much more scanners and targets are coming up. [Join the Slack][slack] channel to stay up to date, ask questions, and let us know what features you would like to see.

Please see [LICENSE][license] for Trivy licensing information.

<figure style="text-align: center">
  <video width="1000" autoplay muted controls loop>
    <source src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1161307/171013513-95f18734-233d-45d3-aaf5-d6aec687db0e.mov" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
  <figcaption>Demo: Vulnerability Detection</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure style="text-align: center">
  <video width="1000" autoplay muted controls loop>
    <source src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1161307/171013917-b1f37810-f434-465c-b01a-22de036bd9b3.mov" type="video/mp4" />
  </video>
  <figcaption>Demo: Misconfiguration Detection</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure style="text-align: center">
  <img src="imgs/secret-demo.gif" width="1000">
  <figcaption>Demo: Secret Detection</figcaption>
</figure>

[integrations]: ./tutorials/integrations/index.md
[slack]: https://slack.aquasec.com
[license]:  https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/blob/main/LICENSE
