docs/docs/vulnerability/detection/language.md, before:

# Language-specific Packages

`Trivy` automatically detects the following files in the container and scans vulnerabilities in the application dependencies.

| Language | File                                                                                       | Image[^8] | Rootfs[^9] | Filesystem[^10] | Repository[^11] | Dev dependencies |
| -------- |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| :-------: | :--------: | :-------------: | :-------------: | ---------------- |
| Ruby     | Gemfile.lock                                                                               |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | gemspec                                                                                    |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | included         |
| Python   | Pipfile.lock                                                                               |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | poetry.lock                                                                                |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | requirements.txt                                                                           |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | egg package[^1]                                                                            |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
|          | wheel package[^2]                                                                          |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
| PHP      | composer.lock                                                                              |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
| Node.js  | package-lock.json                                                                          |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | yarn.lock                                                                                  |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | pnpm-lock.yaml                                                                             |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | package.json                                                                               |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
| .NET     | packages.lock.json                                                                         |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | packages.config                                                                            |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | .deps.json                                                                                 |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
| Java     | JAR/WAR/PAR/EAR[^3][^4]                                                                    |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | included         |
|          | pom.xml[^5]                                                                                |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | *gradle.lockfile                                                                           |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
| Go       | Binaries built by Go[^6]                                                                   |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
|          | go.mod[^7]                                                                                 |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
| Rust     | Cargo.lock                                                                                 |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | Binaries built with [cargo-auditable](https://github.com/rust-secure-code/cargo-auditable) |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded   
| C/C++    | conan.lock[^12]                                                                            |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |

The path of these files does not matter.

Example: [Dockerfile](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-ci-test/blob/main/Dockerfile)

[^1]: `*.egg-info`, `*.egg-info/PKG-INFO`, `*.egg` and `EGG-INFO/PKG-INFO`
[^2]: `.dist-info/META-DATA`
[^3]: `*.jar`, `*.war`, `*.par` and `*.ear`
[^4]: It requires Internet access
[^5]: It requires Internet access when the POM doesn't exist in your local repository
[^6]: UPX-compressed binaries don't work
[^7]: If smaller than go 1.17, go.sum is also required
[^8]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the image scanning
[^9]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the rootfs scanning
[^10]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the filesystem scanning
[^11]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the git repository scanning
[^12]: Trivy currently only supports default lock filename(`conan.lock`)

Commit message:

add note about file-pattern for non-default filename conan.lock

docs/docs/vulnerability/detection/language.md, after:

# Language-specific Packages

`Trivy` automatically detects the following files in the container and scans vulnerabilities in the application dependencies.

| Language | File                                                                                       | Image[^8] | Rootfs[^9] | Filesystem[^10] | Repository[^11] | Dev dependencies |
| -------- |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| :-------: | :--------: | :-------------: | :-------------: | ---------------- |
| Ruby     | Gemfile.lock                                                                               |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | gemspec                                                                                    |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | included         |
| Python   | Pipfile.lock                                                                               |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | poetry.lock                                                                                |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | requirements.txt                                                                           |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | egg package[^1]                                                                            |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
|          | wheel package[^2]                                                                          |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
| PHP      | composer.lock                                                                              |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
| Node.js  | package-lock.json                                                                          |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | yarn.lock                                                                                  |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | pnpm-lock.yaml                                                                             |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | package.json                                                                               |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
| .NET     | packages.lock.json                                                                         |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | packages.config                                                                            |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | .deps.json                                                                                 |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
| Java     | JAR/WAR/PAR/EAR[^3][^4]                                                                    |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | included         |
|          | pom.xml[^5]                                                                                |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
|          | *gradle.lockfile                                                                           |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |
| Go       | Binaries built by Go[^6]                                                                   |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded         |
|          | go.mod[^7]                                                                                 |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
| Rust     | Cargo.lock                                                                                 |     ✅     |     ✅      |        ✅        |        ✅        | included         |
|          | Binaries built with [cargo-auditable](https://github.com/rust-secure-code/cargo-auditable) |     ✅     |     ✅      |        -        |        -        | excluded   
| C/C++    | conan.lock[^12]                                                                            |     -     |     -      |        ✅        |        ✅        | excluded         |

The path of these files does not matter.

Example: [Dockerfile](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-ci-test/blob/main/Dockerfile)

[^1]: `*.egg-info`, `*.egg-info/PKG-INFO`, `*.egg` and `EGG-INFO/PKG-INFO`
[^2]: `.dist-info/META-DATA`
[^3]: `*.jar`, `*.war`, `*.par` and `*.ear`
[^4]: It requires Internet access
[^5]: It requires Internet access when the POM doesn't exist in your local repository
[^6]: UPX-compressed binaries don't work
[^7]: If smaller than go 1.17, go.sum is also required
[^8]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the image scanning
[^9]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the rootfs scanning
[^10]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the filesystem scanning
[^11]: ✅ means "enabled" and `-` means "disabled" in the git repository scanning
[^12]: To scan a filename other than the default filename(`conan.lock`) use [file-patterns](../examples/others.md#file-patterns)
