docs/docs/vulnerability/examples/others.md, before:

# Others

## Skip Files
Trivy traversals directories and looks for all lock files by default.
If your image contains lock files which are not maintained by you, you can skip the file.

```
$ trivy image --skip-files "/Gemfile.lock" --skip-files "/var/lib/gems/2.5.0/gems/http_parser.rb-0.6.0/Gemfile.lock" quay.io/fluentd_elasticsearch/fluentd:v2.9.0
```

## Skip Directories
Trivy traversals directories and look for all lock files by default.
If your image contains lock files which are not maintained by you, you can skip traversal in the specific directory.

```
$ trivy image --skip-dirs /var/lib/gems/2.5.0/gems/fluent-plugin-detect-exceptions-0.0.13 --skip-dirs "/var/lib/gems/2.5.0/gems/http_parser.rb-0.6.0" quay.io/fluentd_elasticsearch/fluentd:v2.9.0
```

## Scan Image on a specific Architecture and OS

By default, Trivy loads an image on a "linux/amd64" machine.
To customise this, pass a `--platform` argument in the format OS/Architecture for the image:

```
$ trivy image --platform=os/architecture [YOUR_IMAGE_NAME]
```

For example:

```
$ trivy image --platform=linux/arm alpine:3.16.1
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    Vulnerability scanning is enabled
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    Secret scanning is enabled
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    If your scanning is slow, please try '--security-checks vuln' to disable secret scanning
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    Please see also https://aquasecurity.github.io/trivy/dev/docs/secret/scanning/#recommendation for faster secret detection
2022-10-25T21:00:56.190+0300    INFO    Detected OS: alpine
2022-10-25T21:00:56.190+0300    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...
2022-10-25T21:00:56.191+0300    INFO    Number of language-specific files: 0

alpine:3.16.1 (alpine 3.16.1)
=============================
Total: 1 (UNKNOWN: 0, LOW: 0, MEDIUM: 0, HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 1)

┌─────────┬────────────────┬──────────┬───────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Library │ Vulnerability  │ Severity │ Installed Version │ Fixed Version │                            Title                            │
├─────────┼────────────────┼──────────┼───────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ zlib    │ CVE-2022-37434 │ CRITICAL │ 1.2.12-r1         │ 1.2.12-r2     │ zlib: heap-based buffer over-read and overflow in inflate() │
│         │                │          │                   │               │ in inflate.c via a...                                       │
│         │                │          │                   │               │ https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2022-37434                  │
└─────────┴────────────────┴──────────┴───────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

</details>

## File patterns
When a directory is given as an input, Trivy will recursively look for and test all files based on file patterns.
The default file patterns are [here](../../misconfiguration/custom/index.md).

In addition to the default file patterns, the `--file-patterns` option takes regexp patterns to look for your files.
For example, it may be useful when your file name of Dockerfile doesn't match the default patterns.

This can be repeated for specifying multiple file patterns.

A file pattern contains the analyzer it is used for, and the pattern itself, joined by a semicolon. For example:
```
--file-patterns "dockerfile:.*.docker" --file-patterns "yaml:deployment" --file-patterns "pip:requirements-.*\.txt"
```

For more details, see [an example](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/tree/{{ git.commit }}/examples/misconf/file-patterns)

## Exit Code
By default, `Trivy` exits with code 0 even when vulnerabilities are detected.
Use the `--exit-code` option if you want to exit with a non-zero exit code.

```
$ trivy image --exit-code 1 python:3.4-alpine3.9
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2019-05-16T12:51:43.500+0900    INFO    Updating vulnerability database...
2019-05-16T12:52:00.387+0900    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...

python:3.4-alpine3.9 (alpine 3.9.2)
===================================
Total: 1 (UNKNOWN: 0, LOW: 0, MEDIUM: 1, HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 0)

+---------+------------------+----------+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
| LIBRARY | VULNERABILITY ID | SEVERITY | INSTALLED VERSION | FIXED VERSION |             TITLE              |
+---------+------------------+----------+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
| openssl | CVE-2019-1543    | MEDIUM   | 1.1.1a-r1         | 1.1.1b-r1     | openssl: ChaCha20-Poly1305     |
|         |                  |          |                   |               | with long nonces               |
+---------+------------------+----------+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
```

</details>

This option is useful for CI/CD. In the following example, the test will fail only when a critical vulnerability is found.

```
$ trivy image --exit-code 0 --severity MEDIUM,HIGH ruby:2.4.0
$ trivy image --exit-code 1 --severity CRITICAL ruby:2.4.0
```

## Exit on EOSL
Sometimes you may surprisingly get 0 vulnerabilities in an old image:

- Enabling `--ignore-unfixed` option while all packages have no fixed versions.
- Scanning a rather outdated OS (e.g. Ubuntu 10.04).

An OS at the end of service/life (EOSL) usually gets into this situation, which is definitely full of vulnerabilities.
Use the `exit-on-eosl` option accompanied by `exit-code` option to exit with a non-zero code.

```
$ trivy image --exit-code 1 --exit-on-eosl testbeds/ubuntu:10.04
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2023-01-19T22:05:54.358+0800    WARN    This OS version is no longer supported by the distribution: ubuntu 10.04
2023-01-19T22:05:54.358+0800    WARN    The vulnerability detection may be insufficient because security updates are not provided

testbeds/ubuntu:10.04 (ubuntu 10.04)
====================================
Total: 0 (UNKNOWN: 0, LOW: 0, MEDIUM: 0, HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 0)
```

</details>

This option is useful for CI/CD. The following example will fail when a critical vulnerability is found or the OS is EOSL:

```
$ ./trivy image --exit-code 1 --exit-on-eosl --severity CRITICAL alpine:3.16.3
```

## Reset
The `--reset` option removes all caches and database.
After this, it takes a long time as the vulnerability database needs to be rebuilt locally.

```
$ trivy image --reset
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2019-05-16T13:05:31.935+0900    INFO    Resetting...
```

</details>

Commit message:

Only enable in image command

docs/docs/vulnerability/examples/others.md, after:

# Others

## Skip Files
Trivy traversals directories and looks for all lock files by default.
If your image contains lock files which are not maintained by you, you can skip the file.

```
$ trivy image --skip-files "/Gemfile.lock" --skip-files "/var/lib/gems/2.5.0/gems/http_parser.rb-0.6.0/Gemfile.lock" quay.io/fluentd_elasticsearch/fluentd:v2.9.0
```

## Skip Directories
Trivy traversals directories and look for all lock files by default.
If your image contains lock files which are not maintained by you, you can skip traversal in the specific directory.

```
$ trivy image --skip-dirs /var/lib/gems/2.5.0/gems/fluent-plugin-detect-exceptions-0.0.13 --skip-dirs "/var/lib/gems/2.5.0/gems/http_parser.rb-0.6.0" quay.io/fluentd_elasticsearch/fluentd:v2.9.0
```

## Scan Image on a specific Architecture and OS

By default, Trivy loads an image on a "linux/amd64" machine.
To customise this, pass a `--platform` argument in the format OS/Architecture for the image:

```
$ trivy image --platform=os/architecture [YOUR_IMAGE_NAME]
```

For example:

```
$ trivy image --platform=linux/arm alpine:3.16.1
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    Vulnerability scanning is enabled
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    Secret scanning is enabled
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    If your scanning is slow, please try '--security-checks vuln' to disable secret scanning
2022-10-25T21:00:50.972+0300    INFO    Please see also https://aquasecurity.github.io/trivy/dev/docs/secret/scanning/#recommendation for faster secret detection
2022-10-25T21:00:56.190+0300    INFO    Detected OS: alpine
2022-10-25T21:00:56.190+0300    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...
2022-10-25T21:00:56.191+0300    INFO    Number of language-specific files: 0

alpine:3.16.1 (alpine 3.16.1)
=============================
Total: 1 (UNKNOWN: 0, LOW: 0, MEDIUM: 0, HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 1)

┌─────────┬────────────────┬──────────┬───────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Library │ Vulnerability  │ Severity │ Installed Version │ Fixed Version │                            Title                            │
├─────────┼────────────────┼──────────┼───────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ zlib    │ CVE-2022-37434 │ CRITICAL │ 1.2.12-r1         │ 1.2.12-r2     │ zlib: heap-based buffer over-read and overflow in inflate() │
│         │                │          │                   │               │ in inflate.c via a...                                       │
│         │                │          │                   │               │ https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2022-37434                  │
└─────────┴────────────────┴──────────┴───────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

</details>

## File patterns
When a directory is given as an input, Trivy will recursively look for and test all files based on file patterns.
The default file patterns are [here](../../misconfiguration/custom/index.md).

In addition to the default file patterns, the `--file-patterns` option takes regexp patterns to look for your files.
For example, it may be useful when your file name of Dockerfile doesn't match the default patterns.

This can be repeated for specifying multiple file patterns.

A file pattern contains the analyzer it is used for, and the pattern itself, joined by a semicolon. For example:
```
--file-patterns "dockerfile:.*.docker" --file-patterns "yaml:deployment" --file-patterns "pip:requirements-.*\.txt"
```

For more details, see [an example](https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/tree/{{ git.commit }}/examples/misconf/file-patterns)

## Exit Code
By default, `Trivy` exits with code 0 even when vulnerabilities are detected.
Use the `--exit-code` option if you want to exit with a non-zero exit code.

```
$ trivy image --exit-code 1 python:3.4-alpine3.9
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2019-05-16T12:51:43.500+0900    INFO    Updating vulnerability database...
2019-05-16T12:52:00.387+0900    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...

python:3.4-alpine3.9 (alpine 3.9.2)
===================================
Total: 1 (UNKNOWN: 0, LOW: 0, MEDIUM: 1, HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 0)

+---------+------------------+----------+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
| LIBRARY | VULNERABILITY ID | SEVERITY | INSTALLED VERSION | FIXED VERSION |             TITLE              |
+---------+------------------+----------+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
| openssl | CVE-2019-1543    | MEDIUM   | 1.1.1a-r1         | 1.1.1b-r1     | openssl: ChaCha20-Poly1305     |
|         |                  |          |                   |               | with long nonces               |
+---------+------------------+----------+-------------------+---------------+--------------------------------+
```

</details>

This option is useful for CI/CD. In the following example, the test will fail only when a critical vulnerability is found.

```
$ trivy image --exit-code 0 --severity MEDIUM,HIGH ruby:2.4.0
$ trivy image --exit-code 1 --severity CRITICAL ruby:2.4.0
```

## Exit on EOSL
Sometimes you may surprisingly get 0 vulnerabilities in an old image:

- Enabling `--ignore-unfixed` option while all packages have no fixed versions.
- Scanning a rather outdated OS (e.g. Ubuntu 10.04).

An OS at the end of service/life (EOSL) usually gets into this situation, which is definitely full of vulnerabilities.
Use the `exit-on-eosl` option accompanied by `exit-code` option to exit with a non-zero code.
This flag is only available with `trivy image` command.

```
$ trivy image --exit-code 1 --exit-on-eosl testbeds/ubuntu:10.04
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2023-01-19T22:05:54.358+0800    WARN    This OS version is no longer supported by the distribution: ubuntu 10.04
2023-01-19T22:05:54.358+0800    WARN    The vulnerability detection may be insufficient because security updates are not provided

testbeds/ubuntu:10.04 (ubuntu 10.04)
====================================
Total: 0 (UNKNOWN: 0, LOW: 0, MEDIUM: 0, HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 0)
```

</details>

This option is useful for CI/CD. The following example will fail when a critical vulnerability is found or the OS is EOSL:

```
$ ./trivy image --exit-code 1 --exit-on-eosl --severity CRITICAL alpine:3.16.3
```

## Reset
The `--reset` option removes all caches and database.
After this, it takes a long time as the vulnerability database needs to be rebuilt locally.

```
$ trivy image --reset
```

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2019-05-16T13:05:31.935+0900    INFO    Resetting...
```

</details>
