docs/docs/vulnerability/examples/report.md, before:

# Report Formats

## Table (Default)

```
$ trivy image -f table golang:1.12-alpine
```

### Show origins of vulnerable dependencies

!!! warning "EXPERIMENTAL"
    This feature might change without preserving backwards compatibility.

Modern software development relies on use of third-party libraries.
Third party dependencies are also depends on others so list of dependencies can be represented as dependency graph.
In some cases vulnerable dependencies are not linked directly, and it requires analyses of the tree.
To make this task simpler Trivy can show a dependency origin tree with the `--dependency-tree` flag.
This flag is available with the `--format table` flag only.

In table output, it looks like:

```sh
$ trivy fs --severity HIGH,CRITICAL --dependency-tree /path/to/your_node_project

package-lock.json (npm)
=======================
Total: 2 (HIGH: 1, CRITICAL: 1)

┌──────────────────┬────────────────┬──────────┬───────────────────┬───────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│     Library      │ Vulnerability  │ Severity │ Installed Version │ Fixed Version │                           Title                            │
├──────────────────┼────────────────┼──────────┼───────────────────┼───────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ follow-redirects │ CVE-2022-0155  │ HIGH     │ 1.14.6            │ 1.14.7        │ follow-redirects: Exposure of Private Personal Information │
│                  │                │          │                   │               │ to an Unauthorized Actor                                   │
│                  │                │          │                   │               │ https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2022-0155                  │
├──────────────────┼────────────────┼──────────┼───────────────────┼───────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ glob-parent      │ CVE-2020-28469 │ CRITICAL │ 3.1.0             │ 5.1.2         │ nodejs-glob-parent: Regular expression denial of service   │
│                  │                │          │                   │               │ https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2020-28469                 │
└──────────────────┴────────────────┴──────────┴───────────────────┴───────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

Dependency Origin Tree
======================
package-lock.json
├── follow-redirects@1.14.6, (HIGH: 1, CRITICAL: 0)
│   └── axios@0.21.4
└── glob-parent@3.1.0, (HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 1)
    └── chokidar@2.1.8
        └── watchpack-chokidar2@2.0.1
            └── watchpack@1.7.5
                └── webpack@4.46.0
                    └── cra-append-sw@2.7.0
```

Vulnerable dependencies are shown in the top level of the tree.
Lower levels show how those vulnerabilities are introduced.
In the example above **axios@0.21.4** included in the project directly depends on the vulnerable **follow-redirects@1.14.6**.
Also, **glob-parent@3.1.0** with some vulnerabilities is included through chain of dependencies that is added by **cra-append-sw@2.7.0**.

Then, you can try to update **axios@0.21.4** and **cra-append-sw@2.7.0** to resolve vulnerabilities in **follow-redirects@1.14.6** and **glob-parent@3.1.0**.

!!! note
    Only Node.js (package-lock.json) is supported at the moment.

## JSON
Similar structure is included in JSON output format
```json
          "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2022-0235",
          "PkgID": "node-fetch@1.7.3",
          "PkgName": "node-fetch",
          "PkgParents": [
            {
              "ID": "isomorphic-fetch@2.2.1",
              "Parents": [
                {
                  "ID": "fbjs@0.8.18",
                  "Parents": [
                    {
                      "ID": "styled-components@3.1.3"
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ],

```

!!! caution
As of May 2022 the feature is supported for `npm` dependency parser only

## JSON

```
$ trivy image -f json -o results.json golang:1.12-alpine
```

!!! caution
    v0.20.0 changes the JSON schema. For more details, see [here][new-json].

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2019-05-16T01:46:31.777+0900    INFO    Updating vulnerability database...
2019-05-16T01:47:03.007+0900    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>JSON</summary>

```
[
  {
    "Target": "php-app/composer.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  },
  {
    "Target": "node-app/package-lock.json",
    "Vulnerabilities": [
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-16487",
        "PkgName": "lodash",
        "InstalledVersion": "4.17.4",
        "FixedVersion": "\u003e=4.17.11",
        "Title": "lodash: Prototype pollution in utilities function",
        "Description": "A prototype pollution vulnerability was found in lodash \u003c4.17.11 where the functions merge, mergeWith, and defaultsDeep can be tricked into adding or modifying properties of Object.prototype.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-16487",
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "Target": "trivy-ci-test (alpine 3.7.1)",
    "Vulnerabilities": [
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-16840",
        "PkgName": "curl",
        "InstalledVersion": "7.61.0-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "7.61.1-r1",
        "Title": "curl: Use-after-free when closing \"easy\" handle in Curl_close()",
        "Description": "A heap use-after-free flaw was found in curl versions from 7.59.0 through 7.61.1 in the code related to closing an easy handle. ",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-16840",
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2019-3822",
        "PkgName": "curl",
        "InstalledVersion": "7.61.0-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "7.61.1-r2",
        "Title": "curl: NTLMv2 type-3 header stack buffer overflow",
        "Description": "libcurl versions from 7.36.0 to before 7.64.0 are vulnerable to a stack-based buffer overflow. ",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://curl.haxx.se/docs/CVE-2019-3822.html",
          "https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/8338a0f605bdbb3a6098bb76f666a95fc2b2f53f37fa1ecc89f1146f@%3Cdevnull.infra.apache.org%3E"
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-16839",
        "PkgName": "curl",
        "InstalledVersion": "7.61.0-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "7.61.1-r1",
        "Title": "curl: Integer overflow leading to heap-based buffer overflow in Curl_sasl_create_plain_message()",
        "Description": "Curl versions 7.33.0 through 7.61.1 are vulnerable to a buffer overrun in the SASL authentication code that may lead to denial of service.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://github.com/curl/curl/commit/f3a24d7916b9173c69a3e0ee790102993833d6c5",
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-19486",
        "PkgName": "git",
        "InstalledVersion": "2.15.2-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "2.15.3-r0",
        "Title": "git: Improper handling of PATH allows for commands to be executed from the current directory",
        "Description": "Git before 2.19.2 on Linux and UNIX executes commands from the current working directory (as if '.' were at the end of $PATH) in certain cases involving the run_command() API and run-command.c, because there was a dangerous change from execvp to execv during 2017.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://usn.ubuntu.com/3829-1/",
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-17456",
        "PkgName": "git",
        "InstalledVersion": "2.15.2-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "2.15.3-r0",
        "Title": "git: arbitrary code execution via .gitmodules",
        "Description": "Git before 2.14.5, 2.15.x before 2.15.3, 2.16.x before 2.16.5, 2.17.x before 2.17.2, 2.18.x before 2.18.1, and 2.19.x before 2.19.1 allows remote code execution during processing of a recursive \"git clone\" of a superproject if a .gitmodules file has a URL field beginning with a '-' character.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "http://www.securitytracker.com/id/1041811",
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "Target": "python-app/Pipfile.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  },
  {
    "Target": "ruby-app/Gemfile.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  },
  {
    "Target": "rust-app/Cargo.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  }
]
```

</details>

`VulnerabilityID`, `PkgName`, `InstalledVersion`, and `Severity` in `Vulnerabilities` are always filled with values, but other fields might be empty.

## SARIF
[Sarif][sarif] can be generated with the `--format sarif` option.

```
$ trivy image --format sarif -o report.sarif  golang:1.12-alpine
```

This SARIF file can be uploaded to GitHub code scanning results, and there is a [Trivy GitHub Action][action] for automating this process.

## Template

### Custom Template

{% raw %}
```
$ trivy image --format template --template "{{ range . }} {{ .Target }} {{ end }}" golang:1.12-alpine
```
{% endraw %}

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2020-01-02T18:02:32.856+0100    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...
 golang:1.12-alpine (alpine 3.10.2)
```
</details>

You can compute different figures within the template using [sprig][sprig] functions.
As an example you can summarize the different classes of issues:


{% raw %}
```
$ trivy image --format template --template '{{- $critical := 0 }}{{- $high := 0 }}{{- range . }}{{- range .Vulnerabilities }}{{- if  eq .Severity "CRITICAL" }}{{- $critical = add $critical 1 }}{{- end }}{{- if  eq .Severity "HIGH" }}{{- $high = add $high 1 }}{{- end }}{{- end }}{{- end }}Critical: {{ $critical }}, High: {{ $high }}' golang:1.12-alpine
```
{% endraw %}

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
Critical: 0, High: 2
```
</details>

For other features of sprig, see the official [sprig][sprig] documentation.

### Load templates from a file
You can load templates from a file prefixing the template path with an @.

```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@/path/to/template" golang:1.12-alpine
```

### Default Templates

If Trivy is installed using rpm then default templates can be found at `/usr/local/share/trivy/templates`.

#### XML
In the following example using the template `junit.tpl` XML can be generated.
```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@contrib/junit.tpl" -o junit-report.xml  golang:1.12-alpine
```

#### ASFF
Trivy also supports an [ASFF template for reporting findings to AWS Security Hub][asff]

#### HTML

```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@contrib/html.tpl" -o report.html golang:1.12-alpine
```

The following example shows use of default HTML template when Trivy is installed using rpm.

```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@/usr/local/share/trivy/templates/html.tpl" -o report.html golang:1.12-alpine
```


[new-json]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/discussions/1050
[action]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-action
[asff]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/blob/main/docs/advanced/integrations/aws-security-hub.md
[sarif]: https://docs.github.com/en/github/finding-security-vulnerabilities-and-errors-in-your-code/managing-results-from-code-scanning
[sprig]: http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/

Commit message:

docs: explain why the reversed tree is useful

docs/docs/vulnerability/examples/report.md, after:

# Report Formats

## Table (Default)

```
$ trivy image -f table golang:1.12-alpine
```

### Show origins of vulnerable dependencies

!!! warning "EXPERIMENTAL"
    This feature might change without preserving backwards compatibility.

Modern software development relies on the use of third-party libraries.
Third-party dependencies also depend on others so a list of dependencies can be represented as a dependency graph.
In some cases, vulnerable dependencies are not linked directly, and it requires analyses of the tree.
To make this task simpler Trivy can show a dependency origin tree with the `--dependency-tree` flag.
This flag is available with the `--format table` flag only.

This tree is the reverse of the npm list command.
However, if you want to resolve a vulnerability in a particular indirect dependency, the reversed tree is useful to know where that dependency comes from and identify which package you actually need to update.

In table output, it looks like:

```sh
$ trivy fs --severity HIGH,CRITICAL --dependency-tree /path/to/your_node_project

package-lock.json (npm)
=======================
Total: 2 (HIGH: 1, CRITICAL: 1)

┌──────────────────┬────────────────┬──────────┬───────────────────┬───────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│     Library      │ Vulnerability  │ Severity │ Installed Version │ Fixed Version │                           Title                            │
├──────────────────┼────────────────┼──────────┼───────────────────┼───────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ follow-redirects │ CVE-2022-0155  │ HIGH     │ 1.14.6            │ 1.14.7        │ follow-redirects: Exposure of Private Personal Information │
│                  │                │          │                   │               │ to an Unauthorized Actor                                   │
│                  │                │          │                   │               │ https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2022-0155                  │
├──────────────────┼────────────────┼──────────┼───────────────────┼───────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ glob-parent      │ CVE-2020-28469 │ CRITICAL │ 3.1.0             │ 5.1.2         │ nodejs-glob-parent: Regular expression denial of service   │
│                  │                │          │                   │               │ https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2020-28469                 │
└──────────────────┴────────────────┴──────────┴───────────────────┴───────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

Dependency Origin Tree
======================
package-lock.json
├── follow-redirects@1.14.6, (HIGH: 1, CRITICAL: 0)
│   └── axios@0.21.4
└── glob-parent@3.1.0, (HIGH: 0, CRITICAL: 1)
    └── chokidar@2.1.8
        └── watchpack-chokidar2@2.0.1
            └── watchpack@1.7.5
                └── webpack@4.46.0
                    └── cra-append-sw@2.7.0
```

Vulnerable dependencies are shown in the top level of the tree.
Lower levels show how those vulnerabilities are introduced.
In the example above **axios@0.21.4** included in the project directly depends on the vulnerable **follow-redirects@1.14.6**.
Also, **glob-parent@3.1.0** with some vulnerabilities is included through chain of dependencies that is added by **cra-append-sw@2.7.0**.

Then, you can try to update **axios@0.21.4** and **cra-append-sw@2.7.0** to resolve vulnerabilities in **follow-redirects@1.14.6** and **glob-parent@3.1.0**.

!!! note
    Only Node.js (package-lock.json) is supported at the moment.

## JSON
Similar structure is included in JSON output format
```json
          "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2022-0235",
          "PkgID": "node-fetch@1.7.3",
          "PkgName": "node-fetch",
          "PkgParents": [
            {
              "ID": "isomorphic-fetch@2.2.1",
              "Parents": [
                {
                  "ID": "fbjs@0.8.18",
                  "Parents": [
                    {
                      "ID": "styled-components@3.1.3"
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          ],

```

!!! caution
As of May 2022 the feature is supported for `npm` dependency parser only

## JSON

```
$ trivy image -f json -o results.json golang:1.12-alpine
```

!!! caution
    v0.20.0 changes the JSON schema. For more details, see [here][new-json].

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2019-05-16T01:46:31.777+0900    INFO    Updating vulnerability database...
2019-05-16T01:47:03.007+0900    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...
```

</details>

<details>
<summary>JSON</summary>

```
[
  {
    "Target": "php-app/composer.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  },
  {
    "Target": "node-app/package-lock.json",
    "Vulnerabilities": [
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-16487",
        "PkgName": "lodash",
        "InstalledVersion": "4.17.4",
        "FixedVersion": "\u003e=4.17.11",
        "Title": "lodash: Prototype pollution in utilities function",
        "Description": "A prototype pollution vulnerability was found in lodash \u003c4.17.11 where the functions merge, mergeWith, and defaultsDeep can be tricked into adding or modifying properties of Object.prototype.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-16487",
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "Target": "trivy-ci-test (alpine 3.7.1)",
    "Vulnerabilities": [
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-16840",
        "PkgName": "curl",
        "InstalledVersion": "7.61.0-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "7.61.1-r1",
        "Title": "curl: Use-after-free when closing \"easy\" handle in Curl_close()",
        "Description": "A heap use-after-free flaw was found in curl versions from 7.59.0 through 7.61.1 in the code related to closing an easy handle. ",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2018-16840",
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2019-3822",
        "PkgName": "curl",
        "InstalledVersion": "7.61.0-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "7.61.1-r2",
        "Title": "curl: NTLMv2 type-3 header stack buffer overflow",
        "Description": "libcurl versions from 7.36.0 to before 7.64.0 are vulnerable to a stack-based buffer overflow. ",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://curl.haxx.se/docs/CVE-2019-3822.html",
          "https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/8338a0f605bdbb3a6098bb76f666a95fc2b2f53f37fa1ecc89f1146f@%3Cdevnull.infra.apache.org%3E"
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-16839",
        "PkgName": "curl",
        "InstalledVersion": "7.61.0-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "7.61.1-r1",
        "Title": "curl: Integer overflow leading to heap-based buffer overflow in Curl_sasl_create_plain_message()",
        "Description": "Curl versions 7.33.0 through 7.61.1 are vulnerable to a buffer overrun in the SASL authentication code that may lead to denial of service.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://github.com/curl/curl/commit/f3a24d7916b9173c69a3e0ee790102993833d6c5",
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-19486",
        "PkgName": "git",
        "InstalledVersion": "2.15.2-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "2.15.3-r0",
        "Title": "git: Improper handling of PATH allows for commands to be executed from the current directory",
        "Description": "Git before 2.19.2 on Linux and UNIX executes commands from the current working directory (as if '.' were at the end of $PATH) in certain cases involving the run_command() API and run-command.c, because there was a dangerous change from execvp to execv during 2017.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "https://usn.ubuntu.com/3829-1/",
        ]
      },
      {
        "VulnerabilityID": "CVE-2018-17456",
        "PkgName": "git",
        "InstalledVersion": "2.15.2-r0",
        "FixedVersion": "2.15.3-r0",
        "Title": "git: arbitrary code execution via .gitmodules",
        "Description": "Git before 2.14.5, 2.15.x before 2.15.3, 2.16.x before 2.16.5, 2.17.x before 2.17.2, 2.18.x before 2.18.1, and 2.19.x before 2.19.1 allows remote code execution during processing of a recursive \"git clone\" of a superproject if a .gitmodules file has a URL field beginning with a '-' character.",
        "Severity": "HIGH",
        "References": [
          "http://www.securitytracker.com/id/1041811",
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  {
    "Target": "python-app/Pipfile.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  },
  {
    "Target": "ruby-app/Gemfile.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  },
  {
    "Target": "rust-app/Cargo.lock",
    "Vulnerabilities": null
  }
]
```

</details>

`VulnerabilityID`, `PkgName`, `InstalledVersion`, and `Severity` in `Vulnerabilities` are always filled with values, but other fields might be empty.

## SARIF
[Sarif][sarif] can be generated with the `--format sarif` option.

```
$ trivy image --format sarif -o report.sarif  golang:1.12-alpine
```

This SARIF file can be uploaded to GitHub code scanning results, and there is a [Trivy GitHub Action][action] for automating this process.

## Template

### Custom Template

{% raw %}
```
$ trivy image --format template --template "{{ range . }} {{ .Target }} {{ end }}" golang:1.12-alpine
```
{% endraw %}

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
2020-01-02T18:02:32.856+0100    INFO    Detecting Alpine vulnerabilities...
 golang:1.12-alpine (alpine 3.10.2)
```
</details>

You can compute different figures within the template using [sprig][sprig] functions.
As an example you can summarize the different classes of issues:


{% raw %}
```
$ trivy image --format template --template '{{- $critical := 0 }}{{- $high := 0 }}{{- range . }}{{- range .Vulnerabilities }}{{- if  eq .Severity "CRITICAL" }}{{- $critical = add $critical 1 }}{{- end }}{{- if  eq .Severity "HIGH" }}{{- $high = add $high 1 }}{{- end }}{{- end }}{{- end }}Critical: {{ $critical }}, High: {{ $high }}' golang:1.12-alpine
```
{% endraw %}

<details>
<summary>Result</summary>

```
Critical: 0, High: 2
```
</details>

For other features of sprig, see the official [sprig][sprig] documentation.

### Load templates from a file
You can load templates from a file prefixing the template path with an @.

```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@/path/to/template" golang:1.12-alpine
```

### Default Templates

If Trivy is installed using rpm then default templates can be found at `/usr/local/share/trivy/templates`.

#### XML
In the following example using the template `junit.tpl` XML can be generated.
```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@contrib/junit.tpl" -o junit-report.xml  golang:1.12-alpine
```

#### ASFF
Trivy also supports an [ASFF template for reporting findings to AWS Security Hub][asff]

#### HTML

```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@contrib/html.tpl" -o report.html golang:1.12-alpine
```

The following example shows use of default HTML template when Trivy is installed using rpm.

```
$ trivy image --format template --template "@/usr/local/share/trivy/templates/html.tpl" -o report.html golang:1.12-alpine
```


[new-json]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/discussions/1050
[action]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy-action
[asff]: https://github.com/aquasecurity/trivy/blob/main/docs/advanced/integrations/aws-security-hub.md
[sarif]: https://docs.github.com/en/github/finding-security-vulnerabilities-and-errors-in-your-code/managing-results-from-code-scanning
[sprig]: http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/
